Do Some Animals Teach Their Young?
How can it be determined whether an animal behavior qualifies as teaching? In recent years, the accepted functional definition of teaching has been that proposed by Caro and Hauser (1992). To qualify as teaching, an animal has to meet three requirements. First, it must modify its behavior specifically in the presence of naïve and untaught individuals in such a way as to facilitate their learning.
Second, the teacher should incur some immediate cost to itself, or at least no immediate benefit. But of course for teaching to evolve, the teacher needs to reap some benefit in the longer term, such as reduced time feeding young due to having knowledgeable offspring. In addition, as a result of the teacher's behavior, the pupil should learn something earlier in life or more rapidly than it would otherwise or that it would not learn at all.
Caro and Hauser described a number of situations where teaching might be occurring involving capturing prey that are difficult to subdue or handle. For example, domestic cats bring dead birds and mice back to the nest and present them to their kittens. As the kittens mature, mother cats carry back live prey and allow the kittens to play with it, but if the prey escapes the mother still catches it again. Finally the kittens capture prey by themselves with little
intervention from the mother. Cheetahs behave similarly.
Osprey, which snatch fish from the water in their talons, have been seen apparently teaching their young to forage (search for food). However, in none of these cases was it demonstrated what or how much the young actually learn as a result of the adults' behavior. This gap has been filled by a study of meerkats conducted by Thornton and McAuliffe (2006), a unique model demonstration of animal teaching.
Meerkats are small cooperatively breeding mammals found in the dry parts of southern Africa. They hold group territories in which the young are mostly produced by a dominant male and female but raised by all members of the group. When meerkat pups are about a month old, they begin to follow foraging groups around, making begging calls which stimulate older animals to bring them prey.
