--
# C1 meterial
“Hi, uh, I wanted to ask about the science program. I hear it sometimes…”

“You mean Science Hour? The one we air, eight to nine on Thursday nights?”

“No, the program I hear a few times a day. It’s a minute or two long.”

“Oh, you mean Moment of Science? We broadcast each episode four times daily.”

“I heard that sometimes students write them.”

“That’s true—if we approve their topic.”

“I was hoping to do that. But I noticed that the episodes lately have all been about astronomy. I mean, you’re open to other topics, right?”

“It’s true. We’ve featured a lot of astronomy lately. Well, for one thing, the astronomy department recently made some major purchases. So we did a series of episodes on what all the new instruments in the observatory are used for.”

“Right. The episode last week about the Schmidt camera—that was really interesting.”

“And also, Professor Collins in the astronomy department offers extra credit to students who write scripts for the show. She even comes down to do the narration sometimes.”

“Hey, um, what I’d like to do is write a few Moment of Science episodes about the experimental pond—the BIO pond, you know, over in your high school dormitory?”

“Oh, yeah. But we just did a big piece on that for Science Hour. Bloomy trails to the pond were cut through the woods, right?”

“And the pond itself was enlarged by 25%. More plants were introduced into the habitat, right?”

“And you interviewed my biology professor about it.”

“Yes, but if we just did an hour-long program, I don’t think we’d go back to the same topic again.”

“Oh, nothing would be repeated. It’s just that now that the pond’s been enlarged, some students have started leading their own research projects. They’re not just assisting the professors.”

“I didn’t realize that. I thought only the faculty were allowed to initiate research projects.”

“Not anymore. Like the project I’m working on—we’re documenting the territorial behavior of the green frogs in the pond.”

“Green frogs? Sounds interesting.”

“And another student is looking at the relationship between the growth rate of aquatic plants and the hours of direct sunlight they receive.”

“Clearly, those stories should be different enough.”

“So, a couple of things to bear in mind. First, there’s a strict word limit. Remember, each episode is just two minutes long.”

“Okay.”

“Second, you’ll need a professor to sign off on your script before you submit it to us, to verify that the science is accurate.”

“Okay.”

“Now let me print out some topic proposal forms for you.”
